"s1"	"Ford the River"	river.jpg	s1_map.jpg	"High up in the Andes mountains of South America, a young alpaca named Adalita has gotten separated from her family.  She knows they like to graze in a pasture over the next mountain and if she can get there before they move on in ten days, she can catch up to them, but she has to cross difficult terrain to get there.  She has food and water for ten days packed and ready to go.  She begins her journey:
Adalita begins to follow the trail that she knows her family must have taken.  She comes upon a swiftly flowing river, the rapids are too much for her to swim through, but she has to get across.  So she decides to build a raft.  She gathers sticks and uses rope to bind them together, but wonders how big her raft will need to be."	"If Adalita weighs 140 lbs, and it takes ten minutes to cross the river, but each minute in the river makes raft less strong so it can hold ten fewer pounds, how much weight does the raft need to be able to hold? a) 200 lbs b) 240 lbs c) 300 lbs."	"b"	2	-1	"That's right! Because you built your raft correctly, you will now get there one day faster than expected."	"Sorry that's not right.  Because your raft didn't hold up, Adalita falls in the water and has to swim to shore.  The journey will now take two days longer than expected."	"The path ahead disappears around a bend and you can't see what's ahead.  It looks like there's another older worn path that goes to a forest on the right.   Which way do you go? a) forest or b) stay on trail"	"s2"	"s9"
"s2"	"The Dark Forest"	forest.jpg	s2_map.jpg	"Adalita follows a trail into an old forest.  The trees are dense and the ground is a scattered mess of gnarled roots, she must step carefully to avoid tripping.  As she goes further into the forest, the temperature drops.  She hears a rustling sound in the leaves but can't see what is causing it.  Is it another animal or just the wind?  She can't tell. A growling sound comes from her left.  It sounds like a wolf, and if it really is a wolf, it might try to eat her.  Adalita decides to make a run for it, but in order to go fast she will have to drop some of her food."	"If Adalita has enough food for ten days, and she knows she can find at least two more days worth of food on the mountain, then how much of her food can she drop to run away from the wolf? a) one third b) one half c) one fifth."	"c"	1	0	"That's right! Adalita makes her escape with 8 days of food left."	"Sorry that's not right.  Because Adalita drops too much of her food, she now has to spend an extra day searching for more food to replace it."	"There is a trail from the forest going toward the mountain.  Off to the side there is a barn which may have some food.   Which way do you go? a) barn or b) to the base of the mountain"	"s9"	"s3"
"s3"	"The Base of the Mountain"	mountain.jpg	s3_map.jpg	"Adalita has reached the base of the mountain.  A fog is rolling in.  She begins her ascent, but the mountainside is steep.  She must follow a narrow trail of switchbacks that go back and forth across the rocky cliffside.  It is hard to see in the fog and she wonders if she's still on the right trail.  After about an hour of walking, she looks down and sees that she's above the fog now and she's gone a good distance, the valley below looks small and far away.  The ground begins to level out, and she can see a small wooden hut.  There's someone inside."	"Adalita enters the hut.  There is an old man inside baking biscuits.  He tells Adalita that he bakes biscuits every week for his neighbors and family.  He has 17 neighbors and family members to bake for, and they each eat 3 biscuits a day, how many biscuits must he make this week? a) 17 b) 50 c) 51."	"c"	1	-2	"That's right! The man gives Adalita some biscuits to take with her, the extra food means her journey will be two days faster."	"Sorry that's not right.  Adalita gives some of her food to the old man to help feed his family.  Her journey will now take one day longer."	"Moving on, the trail winds further up the mountain and Adalita passes a lake where she could stop and get some water and rest.  Where should she go? a) the lake  b) keep going"	"s5"	"s4"	
"s4"	"The Cemetery"	cemetery.jpg	s4_map.jpg	"Further along the trail, there is a clearing in the trees with rocks arranged in neat rows.  It is a cemetery.  The gravestones are worn down and the names are hard to read, it must be a very old place. Adalita walks through the rows of graves, wondering how long they have been there when she spots a baby bird on top of one of the stones.  She looks up into the trees above and sees a nest.  The baby bird must have fallen out."	"The bird's nest is empty except for some small feathers.  All the baby birds have flown away.  If the nest originally had 8 baby birds, 2 built their own nests in trees nearby, and 1 fell to the ground (which Adalita found), how many baby birds flew away? a) 5 b) 3 c) 8"	"a"	1	0	"That's right! Adalita continues on her journey up the mountain."	"Sorry that's not right.  Adalita takes a day to help the bird find its mother, so her journey will take one day longer."	"The trail continues up the mountain and divides, to the right is a quiet path, to the left there is the sound of water.  Should Adalita go to a) the quiet path b) the sound of water?"	"s5"	"s6"
"s5"	"The Lake"	lake.jpg	s5_map.jpg	"The trail moves further up the mountain and comes to a large lake surrounded by trees.  The water is calm and clear, and rocks are visible at the bottom of the lake.  Adalita decides to go for a swim.  She can see colorful fish swimming around her feet, their scales shining brightly in the sun.  They swim past her in big groups, and she wonders if she could catch one to eat."	"If there are 2 fish per cubic foot of water, and the lake has 250 cubic feet of water, how many fish does the lake have? a) 250 b) 500 c) 550"	"b"	0	-1	"That's right! Adalita takes a fish to eat for dinner, her journey will be one day faster."	"Sorry that's not right.  Adalita continues on her way and does not take any fish to eat."	"At the end of the lake there is a waterfall, the only way past it is up a steep rock scramble.  Should Adalita go to a) the waterfall or b) the rock scramble?"	"s6"	"s7"
"s6"	"The Waterfall"	waterfall.jpg	s6_map.jpg	"At the end of the lake is a waterfall.  It must be at least 100 feet high.  It is loud and the air is misty as Adalita gets closer to it.  She has to walk carefully because the rocks are slippery.  The water is foamy and full of bubbles that float quickly along the rocks down to the lake.  Adalita looks up and notices something, there is movement behind the waterfall.  She sees the rock has an opening in it and decides to investigate.  She carefully follows a ledge over to it and walks behind the curtain of water to a tunnel.  An alligator is waiting inside."	"The alligator has a basket full of fish, he will give it to Adalita if she can guess how many fish are in it.  If each fish takes up 3 cubic inches of space, and the basket has 31 cubic inches, how many full-size fish fit in the basket? a) 31 b) 15 c) 10"	"c"	1	-2	"That's right! Adalita takes the basket of fish, her journey will be two days faster."	"Sorry that's not right.  Adalita continues on her way and does not take any fish to eat.  The alligator steals some of her food, her journey will take one day longer."	"Coming back out from behind the waterfall, Adalita looks up at the path, there is a steep rock scramble with boulders and large rocks that she would have to jump over next to the waterfall.  Should she go a) up the rocks b) back  to the lake?"	"s7"	"s6"
"s7"	"The Rock Scramble"	rock_scramble.jpg	s7_map.jpg	"Next to the waterfall is a steep rock scramble.  Adalita climbs up and carefully chooses her footing as she moves from one boulder to another.  At the top is a gap between the rocks that looks too big to jump across but Adalita makes it and comes onto level ground. She looks out over the side of the mountain, the barn that she passed early on is so far away now that it looks like a tiny toy building.  As Adalita turns back to the mountain, a snake slithers out from behind a tree."	"The snake startles Adalita, she tries to run past it but there's nowhere to go, except over the side of the cliff she just climbed up.  If the snake has a biting range of 3 feet, how high does Adalita have to jump to get past it? a) 2 feet b) 3.5 feet c) 1 foot"	"b"	2	0	"That's right! Adalita gets past the snake safely and continues on her way."	"Sorry that's not right.  Adalita gets bitten by the snake, the journey will now take two days longer."	"Adalita approaches an opening in the side of the mountain.  It's a cave, it's too dark inside to see how far back it goes.  Should Adalita a) go in or b) turn back?"	"s8"	"s7"
"s8"	"The Cave"	cave.jpg	s8_map.jpg	"The cave is dark and damp.  The sound of water dripping can be heard in the distance.  Adalita's eyes adjust to the darkness as she walks farther in.  She can see piles of rocks and bones.  The bones have been picked clean, something has been eating here, and probably living here.  Adalita continues on, the sound of water gets louder and she sees it is dripping down from the ceiling of the cave and forming a small stream that runs downhill.  Suddenly, a bear appears next to the stream."	"Adalita wants to run around the bear, but she's not sure which way to go.  To the left the bear is blocking the 3 quarters of the path, but to the right he's blocking 6 eigths of the path.  Which side has more room? a) the right b) the left c) they are the same"	"c"	1	0	"That's right! Adalita gets past the bear safely and continues on her way."	"Sorry that's not right.  Adalita gets past the bear, but she runs too close to him and he steals some of her food. The journey will now take one day longer."	"There is light at the end of the cave, but there is also the water that looks like it runs downhill back to the lake.  Should Adalita a) go towards the light b) follow the water?"	"s10"	"s5"
"s9"	"The Abandoned Barn"	barn.jpg	barn_map.jpg	"The trail turns east and a building comes into view.  It's an old barn, it looks run down because the paint is peeling and the door is hanging off its hinges, but there could be food inside.  Adalita decides to check it out.  The barn is dusty and falling apart, but on a table inside there are bags of corn.  Adalita walks over to the table when suddenly a badger jumps out of the corner.  He had been living in the barn and eating the corn himself, and he doesn't want to let it go without a fight."	"The corn is in three piles.  The piles are: 5 ears of corn, 7 ears of corn, and 3 ears of corn.  How much corn is there altogether? a) 15 ears b) 12 ears c) 17 ears"	"a"	0	-1	"That's right! Adalita gets past the badger and takes the corn.  The journey will now be one day shorter."	"Sorry that's not right.  Adalita runs away from the badger and doesn't get any corn."	"Moving on, the trail winds further up the mountain, but Adalita sees a lake where she could stop and get some water and rest.  Where should she go? a) the lake  b) stay on the trail"	"s5"	"s4"
"s10"	"Family is Found"	alpaca_pasture.jpg	s10_map.jpg	"Congratulations, Adalita made it in time and found her family!"